tyk-docs/content/plugins/supported-languages/rich-plugins/grpc/write-grpc-plugin.md, before:

---
date: 2017-03-24T13:32:12Z
title: How to write gRPC Plugins
menu:
  main:
    parent: "gRPC"
weight: 1 
aliases: 
  -  "plugins/supported-languages/rich-plugins/grpc/write-grpc-plugin"
  -  plugins/rich-plugins/grpc/write-grpc-plugin
---

This document explains an overview for how to develop Tyk gRPC plugins. The necessary steps are:

1. Implement a gRPC Server
2. Configure Tyk Gateway with the following details:

  1. gRPC server
  2. Plugins webserver from which plugin bundles are downloaded (optional)

3. Configure your API with the required plugin hooks implemented by your server    

## Implement gRPC Server

Implement a gRPC server in your preferred language. Refer to Tyk's protobuf and bindings for guidance. We have provided example tutorials that explain how to generate the protobuf bindings and implement a server for the following languages:
- [Java]({{< ref "" >}})
- [.NET]({{< ref "" >}})
- [NodeJS]({{< ref "" >}})

There are also examples available at the following Tyk GitHub repositories:
- [Ruby](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-plugin-demo-ruby)
- [C#/.NET](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-plugin-demo-dotnet)

## Configure Tyk Gateway 

Configure Tyk Gateway to use your gRPC server and optionally specify the URL of the web server that will serve plugin bundles.

### gRPC Server

Modify the root of your `tyk.conf` file to include the *coprocess_options* section, similar to that listed below:

```json
"coprocess_options": {
  "enable_coprocess": true,
  "coprocess_grpc_server": "tcp://127.0.0.1:5555",
  "grpc_authority": "localhost",
  "grpc_recv_max_size": 100000000,
  "grpc_send_max_size": 100000000
},
```

Coprocess options are configured under the `coprocess_options` key as follows:

- `enable_coprocess`: Enables the rich plugins feature.
- `coprocess_grpc_server`: Specifies the gRPC server URL, in this example we're using TCP. Tyk will attempt a connection on startup and keep reconnecting in case of failure.
- `grpc_recv_max_size`: Specifies the message size supported by the gateway gRPC client, for receiving gRPC responses.
- `grpc_send_max_size`: Specifies the message size supported by the gateway gRPC client for sending gRPC requests.
- `grpc_authority`: The `:authority` header value, defaults to `localhost` if omitted. Allows configuration according to [RFC 7540](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7540#section-8.1.2.3).

When using gRPC plugins, Tyk acts as a gRPC client and dispatches requests to your gRPC server. gRPC libraries usually set a default maximum size, for example the official gRPC Java library establishes a 4
MB message size [https://jbrandhorst.com/post/grpc-binary-blob-stream/](https://jbrandhorst.com/post/grpc-binary-blob-stream/).

We've added flags for establishing a message size in both directions (send and receive). For most use cases and especially if you're dealing with multiple hooks, where the same request object is dispatched, it is recommended to set both values to the same size.

### Web server for hosting plugin bundles (optional)

Tyk allows plugin bundles to be downloaded from a web server. For further details related to the concept of bundling plugins please refer to []({{< ref "" >}})

```json
"enable_bundle_downloader": true,
"bundle_base_url": "https://my-bundle-server.com/bundles/",
"public_key_path": "/path/to/my/pubkey",
```

The following parameters can be configured: 
- `enable_bundle_downloader`: Enables the bundle downloader to download bundles from a webserver.
- `bundle_base_url`: Base URL from which to serve bundled plugins.
- `public_key_path`: Public key for bundle verification (optional)

The `public_key_path` value is used for verifying signed bundles, you may omit this if unsigned bundles are used.

In the example above, we have `test-bundle` specified in the API settings. Based on that, the following bundle URL would be constructed: https://my-bundle-server.com/bundles/test-bundle.

## Configure API

Plugin hooks can be configured for your APIs as bundled or unbundled.

### Unbundled Plugin Configuration

Define plugin hooks in the API Definition. 

</br>
{{< note success >}}
**Note**

Ensure the plugin driver is configured as grpc.
{{< /note >}}

An example snippet from a Tyk Classic API Definition is provided below:

```json
"custom_middleware": {
    "pre": [
        {"name": "MyPreMiddleware"}
    ],
    "post": [
        {"name": "MyPostMiddleware"}
    ],
    "auth_check": {
        "name": "MyAuthCheck"
    },
    "driver": "grpc"
}
```

{{< note success >}}
**Note**

Tyk will issue a request to your gRPC server for each plugin hook configured. 
{{< /note >}}


### Bundled Plugin Configuration (Optional)

A gRPC plugin is similar to the [standard bundling mechanism](({{< ref "plugins/how-to-serve-plugins/plugin-bundles" >}})) that we use for the rest of our rich plugins. A standard rich plugin bundle contains the actual plugin source code, which will be executed by Tyk. Conversely, a gRPC plugin bundle contains only a custom middleware definition (manifest.json), with code execution being handled independently at the gRPC server.

Bundling a plugin requires the following steps:
- Create a manifest.json
- Build a zip file that bundles your plugin
- Upload the zip file to a webserver that hosts your plugin bundles
- Configure your API to download your plugin bundle

#### Create manifest.json

An example manifest.json is listed below:

```json
{
    "file_list": [],
    "custom_middleware": {
        "pre": [{"name": "MyPreMiddleware"}],
        "post": [{"name": "MyPostMiddleware"}],
        "auth_check": {"name": "MyAuthCheck"},
        "driver": "grpc"
    },
    "checksum": "",
    "signature": ""
}
```

#### Build plugin bundle

A plugin bundle can be built using the Tyk Gateway binary and should only contain the manifest.json file:

```bash
tyk bundle build -output mybundle.zip -key mykey.pem
```

The example above generates a zip file, name `mybundle.zip`. The zip file is signed with key `mykey.pem`.

The resulting bundle file should then be uploaded to the webserver that hosts your plugin bundles.

#### Configure API

To add a gRPC plugin to your API definition, you must specify the bundle file name (excluding the .zip suffix) from within the `custom_middleware_bundle` field:

```yaml
{
   "name": "Tyk Test API",
   ...
+  "custom_middleware_bundle": "mybundle"
}
```

The value of the field will be used in combination with the gateway settings to construct a bundle URL.
For example, if the Gateway was configured with a webserver base URL of https://my-bundle-server.com/bundles/ then an attempt would be made to download the bundle from https://my-bundle-server.com/bundles/mybundle.zip.


## Test your API Endpoint

Test the API endpoint using tools like curl. Ensure that your gRPC server is running and the gRPC plugin(s) are functioning.

```bash
curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/api/path
```

Replace `http://localhost:8080/api/path?` with the actual endpoint of your API.

Commit message:

draft commit: refactor introduction of writing grpc plugins and add class diagram to rich plugins data structure page

tyk-docs/content/plugins/supported-languages/rich-plugins/grpc/write-grpc-plugin.md, after:

---
date: 2017-03-24T13:32:12Z
title: How to write gRPC Plugins
menu:
  main:
    parent: "gRPC"
weight: 1 
aliases: 
  -  "plugins/supported-languages/rich-plugins/grpc/write-grpc-plugin"
  -  plugins/rich-plugins/grpc/write-grpc-plugin
---

This guide explains the process for writing and configuring gRPC plugins for Tyk Gateway.
It assumes that you have developed your gRPC server, in your preferred language, to handle requests from Tyk Gateway. Furthermore your gRPC server should implement handlers for the required plugin hooks. These hooks allow Tyk Gateway to communicate with your gRPC server to execute custom middleware at various stages of the API request lifecycle.

Refer to Tyk's protobuf and bindings for guidance. Example tutorials are available that explain how to generate the protobuf bindings and implement a server for the following languages:
- [Java]({{< ref "" >}})
- [.NET]({{< ref "" >}})
- [NodeJS]({{< ref "" >}})

There are also examples available at the following Tyk GitHub repositories:
- [Ruby](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-plugin-demo-ruby)
- [C#/.NET](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-plugin-demo-dotnet)
 
## Overview

1. **Configure Tyk Gateway**
Set up Tyk Gateway with the following details:
    1. **gRPC Server**
    Specify the endpoint of your gRPC server where Tyk Gateway will send requests for plugin execution. This ensures seamless integration between Tyk Gateway and your gRPC server.

    2. **Webserver (optional)**
    Optionally, configure a web server from which plugin bundles can be downloaded. For gRPC plugins, the bundle containing the manifest.json can be fetched remotely from a web server. Alternatively, plugin hooks can be configured directly within the Tyk API Definition's *custom_middleware* section. This flexibility allows for seamless integration of custom logic without the necessity of a dedicated web server, particularly beneficial for simpler setups.

**2. Configure API:**
Configure your API to specify the plugin hooks that Tyk Gateway should request from your gRPC server. You can configure your API within your API Definition using the Tyk Dashboard or API Definition file. 
- You can configure your plugins directly within the `custom_middleware` section of your Tyk API Definition. 
- Alternatively, if you wish to bundle your plugin, ensure it contains only the `manifest.json`. This file contains the configuration for the plugins that Tyk Gateway should request from the gRPC server. It does not include the source code of the plugins themselves.
 
**3. Test API:**
Test that the Gateway integrates with your gRPC server for the plugin hooks that you have configured for your API. It is crucial to ensure the security and reliability of your gRPC server. As the developer, it is your responsibility to verify that your gRPC server is secured and thoroughly tested with appropriate test coverage. Consider implementing unit tests, integration tests and other testing methodologies to ensure the robustness of your server's functionality and security measures. This step ensures that the Tyk Gateway properly communicates with your gRPC server and executes the custom logic defined by the plugin hooks.

---

## Configure Tyk Gateway 

Configure Tyk Gateway to use your gRPC server and optionally specify the URL of the web server that will serve plugin bundles.

### Configure gRPC server

Modify the root of your `tyk.conf` file to include the *coprocess_options* section, similar to that listed below:

```json
"coprocess_options": {
  "enable_coprocess": true,
  "coprocess_grpc_server": "tcp://127.0.0.1:5555",
  "grpc_authority": "localhost",
  "grpc_recv_max_size": 100000000,
  "grpc_send_max_size": 100000000
},
```

Coprocess options are configured under the `coprocess_options` key as follows:

- `enable_coprocess`: Enables the rich plugins feature.
- `coprocess_grpc_server`: Specifies the gRPC server URL, in this example we're using TCP. Tyk will attempt a connection on startup and keep reconnecting in case of failure.
- `grpc_recv_max_size`: Specifies the message size supported by the gateway gRPC client, for receiving gRPC responses.
- `grpc_send_max_size`: Specifies the message size supported by the gateway gRPC client for sending gRPC requests.
- `grpc_authority`: The `:authority` header value, defaults to `localhost` if omitted. Allows configuration according to [RFC 7540](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7540#section-8.1.2.3).

When using gRPC plugins, Tyk acts as a gRPC client and dispatches requests to your gRPC server. gRPC libraries usually set a default maximum size, for example the official gRPC Java library establishes a 4
MB message size [https://jbrandhorst.com/post/grpc-binary-blob-stream/](https://jbrandhorst.com/post/grpc-binary-blob-stream/).

We've added flags for establishing a message size in both directions (send and receive). For most use cases and especially if you're dealing with multiple hooks, where the same request object is dispatched, it is recommended to set both values to the same size.

### Configure Web server (optional)

Tyk allows plugin bundles to be downloaded from a web server. For further details related to the concept of bundling plugins please refer to []({{< ref "" >}})

```json
"enable_bundle_downloader": true,
"bundle_base_url": "https://my-bundle-server.com/bundles/",
"public_key_path": "/path/to/my/pubkey",
```

The following parameters can be configured: 
- `enable_bundle_downloader`: Enables the bundle downloader to download bundles from a webserver.
- `bundle_base_url`: Base URL from which to serve bundled plugins.
- `public_key_path`: Public key for bundle verification (optional)

The `public_key_path` value is used for verifying signed bundles, you may omit this if unsigned bundles are used.

In the example above, we have `test-bundle` specified in the API settings. Based on that, the following bundle URL would be constructed: https://my-bundle-server.com/bundles/test-bundle.

## Configure API

Plugin hooks can be configured for your APIs as bundled or unbundled.

### Unbundled Plugin Configuration

Define plugin hooks in the API Definition. 

</br>
{{< note success >}}
**Note**

Ensure the plugin driver is configured as grpc.
{{< /note >}}

An example snippet from a Tyk Classic API Definition is provided below:

```json
"custom_middleware": {
    "pre": [
        {"name": "MyPreMiddleware"}
    ],
    "post": [
        {"name": "MyPostMiddleware"}
    ],
    "auth_check": {
        "name": "MyAuthCheck"
    },
    "driver": "grpc"
}
```

{{< note success >}}
**Note**

Tyk will issue a request to your gRPC server for each plugin hook configured. 
{{< /note >}}


### Bundled Plugin Configuration (Optional)

A gRPC plugin is similar to the [standard bundling mechanism](({{< ref "plugins/how-to-serve-plugins/plugin-bundles" >}})) that we use for the rest of our rich plugins. A standard rich plugin bundle contains the actual plugin source code, which will be executed by Tyk. Conversely, a gRPC plugin bundle contains only a custom middleware definition (manifest.json), with code execution being handled independently at the gRPC server.

Bundling a plugin requires the following steps:
- Create a manifest.json
- Build a zip file that bundles your plugin
- Upload the zip file to a webserver that hosts your plugin bundles
- Configure your API to download your plugin bundle

#### Create manifest.json

An example manifest.json is listed below:

```json
{
    "file_list": [],
    "custom_middleware": {
        "pre": [{"name": "MyPreMiddleware"}],
        "post": [{"name": "MyPostMiddleware"}],
        "auth_check": {"name": "MyAuthCheck"},
        "driver": "grpc"
    },
    "checksum": "",
    "signature": ""
}
```

#### Build plugin bundle

A plugin bundle can be built using the Tyk Gateway binary and should only contain the manifest.json file:

```bash
tyk bundle build -output mybundle.zip -key mykey.pem
```

The example above generates a zip file, name `mybundle.zip`. The zip file is signed with key `mykey.pem`.

The resulting bundle file should then be uploaded to the webserver that hosts your plugin bundles.

#### Configure API

To add a gRPC plugin to your API definition, you must specify the bundle file name (excluding the .zip suffix) from within the `custom_middleware_bundle` field:

```yaml
{
   "name": "Tyk Test API",
   ...
+  "custom_middleware_bundle": "mybundle"
}
```

The value of the field will be used in combination with the gateway settings to construct a bundle URL.
For example, if the Gateway was configured with a webserver base URL of https://my-bundle-server.com/bundles/ then an attempt would be made to download the bundle from https://my-bundle-server.com/bundles/mybundle.zip.


## Test your API Endpoint

Test the API endpoint using tools like curl. Ensure that your gRPC server is running and the gRPC plugin(s) are functioning.

```bash
curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/api/path
```

Replace `http://localhost:8080/api/path?` with the actual endpoint of your API.
